1.Test your Knowledge

  1. What type would you choose for the following “numbers”?
      A person’s telephone number - String
      A person’s height - Float or Double
      A person’s age - Int
      A person’s gender (Male, Female, Prefer Not To Answer) - String or Enum
      A person’s salary - Decimal
      A book’s ISBN - String
      A book’s price - Decimal    
      A book’s shipping weight - Float or Double
      A country’s population - Long
      The number of stars in the universe - Decimal
      The number of employees in each of the small or medium businesses in the
      United Kingdom (up to about 50,000 employees per business)    - Int
      
  2. What are the difference between value type and reference type variables? What is
  boxing and unboxing?
      The different between value type and reference type are:
            - Value type stored in stack memory, but reference type stored in heap memory.
            - Value type directly holds the value while reference type holds memory address or reference of the value
            - Value type will not be collected by the garbage collector, but reference type will be collected by the
              garbage collector.
            - Value type will be created by struct or enum while reference type can be created by class, interface, 
              delegate or array.
            - Value type cannot accept any null value, but reference type can.
            
      - Boxing is an operation that coverts a value type into reference type (object type).
      - Unboxing is an operation that coverts a reference type into a value type.
      
  3. What is meant by the terms managed resource and unmanaged resource in .NET?
      - Managed resource is organized by garbage collector.
      - Unmanaged resource is outside CLR control. It handles file, database connection etc. 
      
  4. Whats the purpose of Garbage Collector in .NET?
      The purpose of Garbage Collector in .NET is to:
        - Prevent memory leak.
        - Free up memory from unused objects from heap.
        - Divide the heap memory into three different generations such as: generations: 0, 1 and 2.
        - and it runs automatically.
        
Test your Knowledge

  1. What happens when you divide an int variable by 0?
        Mathematically speaking, it is considered as undefined. However, it causes a runtime error in C# and crash the 
        program unless it is handled by a try-catch exception.
        
  2. What happens when you divide a double variable by 0?
        When dividing a double variable by 0, the program will not crash but will instead resulting in a +/- infinity
        and NaN when both numerator and denominator are 0.
        
  3. What happens when you overflow an int variable, that is, set it to a value beyond its
     range?
        In this case if:
        - Checked : an OverflowException is thrown.
        - Unchecked: Integer overflow results in "wraparound" or "truncation".
        
  4. What is the difference between x = y++; and x = ++y;?
        x = y++;
        //this is post-increment, therefore if y = 1 then x = 1, y = 2
        x = ++y;
        //this is pre-increment, therefore if y = 1 then x = 2, y = 2
         
  5. What is the difference between break, continue, and return when used inside a loop
     statement?
        - break: exit the loop immediately.
        - continue: skips the rest of the current iteration and goes to the next one.
        - return: exit the entire method immediately.
     
  6. What are the three parts of a for statement and which of them are required?
        for (initialization; condition; increment)
        - initialization: runs at the beginning of the loop to set up a variable.
        - condition: this is a test to check before each iteration.
        - increment: this will run after each loop iteration to update the control variable
  
  7. What is the difference between the = and == operators?
        = is an Assignment Operator. It sets a value to a variable.
        == is an Equality Comparison Operator. It compares if two values are equal.
  
  8. Does the following statement compile? for ( ; true; ) ;
        - Yes it does and it creates an infinite empty loop that does nothing.
  
  9. What does the underscore _ represent in a switch expression?
        - It is called a default case which matches anything that did not match earlier.
  
  10. What interface must an object implement to be enumerated over by using the foreach
      statement?      
        - It must implement IEnumerable which allows object liek arrays to be iterated in a foreach loop.
        
    What will happen if this code executes?
    int max = 500;
    for (byte i = 0; i < max; i++)
    {
    WriteLine(i);
    }
    
    Explanation: 
        Once this code executes, the loop will keep looping over and over again because of the byte variable overflow 
        back to 0 after reaching its max value at 255.
        
  